.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
.\"  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"  are met:
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of other contributors
.\"     may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"     without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"  SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"  CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH MAKEOID 3ber  "September 2006" Unix "Library calls"
.SH NAME
makeoid - convert ObjectID strings to format usable by BER routines
.SH LIBRARIES
Abz Library (-labz), Debug Library (-ldebug)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ber/ber.h>
.sp
.BI "uint32_t *makeoid(const char *" oid ");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmakeoid()\fP takes an object identifier (dot-delimited string) as input
and convert it into an object identifier used by the BER library routines.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The function returns the newly created object identifier if successful, or
NULL if some error occurred. Call \fBabz_get_error\fP(3) to retrieve the
error message.
.SH EXAMPLES

.RS
.nf
.ta 4n 11n 17n
uint32_t *oid = make_oid ("1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.10.1");
.fi
.RE

Unless the function failed, oid should now be:

.RS
.nf
.ta 4n 11n 17n
oid == { 11, 1, 3, 6, 1, 2, 1, 2, 2, 1, 10, 1 }
.fi
.RE

Notice that the first integer specify how many integers will follow (i.e. 11
for that particular object identifier).
.SH "NOTES"
None of the libdebug routines are thread-safe. I'm not planning to change this
either! For more information, please see http://threading.2038bug.com/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ber_decode_oid(3), ber_encode_oid(3), abz_get_error(3), mem_free(3)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
